## Power-Grid-Independent Electrostatic Fog Collection System With High Water Harvest Rate

### Artem Arefev
## artem.arefev32@gmail.com

**Abstract.** It is known that 2 billion people worldwide face a deficit of clean drinking water. The search for a relatively cheap and portable water source that produces its own water and which can sustain a single person is crucial. The aim of this study was to develop a practical electrostatic fog collection system that would not require an external power source to operate, whose water collection rate would be comparable to existing systems powered from the outlet, and which would avoid the disadvantages of existing systems: namely the risk of fatal electrocution, the high cost of necessary electrical equipment, and the difficulty of scaling up the design for real-life application. To achieve this, a high voltage fur-enhanced triboelectric nanogenerator was designed and developed, to power the electric discharge in air. It was successfully integrated with a novel fog collection system, inspired by the recently proposed "harp-like" fog net design. The integration of the triboelectric nanogenerator power source increased the water collection rate of the system by 57%. The design of the generator proved to be durable and long-lasting, with the machine completing 100,000 revolutions without a decrease in power output. The proposed solution achieved 56% of the water collection rate, of the existing electrostatic fog collection system relying on an external power source: confirming the utility of the proposed solution. In addition, a novel and extremely cheap method of measuring the open circuit voltage of a triboelectric nanogenerator was developed and used in this study.

**Keywords:** Triboelectric Nanogenerator, TENG, Fog Collection, Electrostatic Fog Harp.
